---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Samsung YP-MT6X
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 31
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:f3ddf8aa-88e6-418b-aded-a1c23cae86cc
date: '2005-11-19 18:33:44.000000000 -08:00'
tags:
- life
comments: []
---
<p>I was convinced that the iRiver iFP 795 was the player for me. Then I literally
stumbled across a post on a web forum somewherer that said if you think you
like the iFP 795, you really want a Samsung YP-MT6X. I decided to investigate
that claim, and from where I sit it seems to be true. The YP meets all my
criteria: OGG, long battery life, USB mass storage. It does this better than
the iFP, too. The iFP supports OGG, but apparently there's some minor glitches
with it including heavier battery consumption and clicks between songs. The
Samsung also puts in a little plug for OGG in their manual, rather than just a
footnote on some technical specs page. Samsung claims 42 hours, vs. iRiver's
claim of 40 or so, and the reviewers say they got close to 40, whereas the
iRiver reviewers say they were really only getting 20 or 30. The Samsung is USB
mass storage out of the box, but the iRiver requires a firmware upgrade.</p>

<p>Apparently earlier firmware of the Samsung player had some issues with
navigation, but those have been cleared up. The Samsung looks better, in my
opinion. It's classier and not a weird shape with weird protrusions. The
Samsung manual reads slightly better, too. So the Samsung looks just a bit
better in almost every way, and is $10 cheaper in most marketplaces.</p>

<p>The odd bits where the iRiver has an edge: the YP-MT6X records voice to WAV,
which means it's pretty worthless for long recordings. It records FM and
line-in to mp3 though... maybe a future firmware will let you choose mp3 for
voice recording. The iFP also has a limited FM recording timer. It's only one
timer, so it wouldn't be incredibly useful (although I could make sure never to
miss cartalk again), but it is something.</p>
