---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Juk
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 6
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:8e52da9e-c969-447a-b368-a4a60418b3bc
date: '2005-12-03 21:26:25.000000000 -08:00'
tags:
- audio
comments: []
---
<p>I've been giving Juk a try, and here's my somewhat brutal assessment. First let
me say I love taglib, which seems to be by the same guy that wrote Juk. So I'm
sure Juk will catch up with its features and become a great program. I don't
really have any major gripes with the UI, which is high praise coming from me.
I just don't find it to be stable enough for normal use. I'm looking at version
2.2.2.</p>

<p>The first thing you notice is that you have to pretty much install all of KDE
to get Juk. This is an oft-debated issue that I'm not going to address further
at this juncture.</p>

<p>The second thing I noticed is that it kept crashing on me. All. The. Time.
Maybe it's just my karma; I tend to bring out the worst in software. Some of
the bugs are reproducible, others seemed to be random, but for awhile I was
crashing the thing every couple of minutes, literally. Once I learned what not
to do, we started getting along better. </p>

<p>The complete instability is the primary reason I won't be using Juk in the near
future, but the second reason is almost as compelling - it tends to skip. Ok,
maybe it's not a skip, but a jump or a underrun, but the old terminology dies
hard. Incidentally, I wasn't too keen about having to use artsd, I have no idea
what akode is but I bet it's a bad idea, and gstreamer seems to underrun on
OGGs for some reason. So basically, Juk isn't able to play music smoothly and
that's not good enough for me. (Hint: a nice fat buffer is not a problem for
music players!)</p>

<p>Now for what I liked. I already told you I like taglib, and Juk's tagger didn't
disappoint me (aside from its being one of the more crashable aspects of the
program). Its MusicBrainz support means this is the only program I've found so
far that I can get to run that supports MusicBrainz, and it does so well. I
wish there was more information about just how it made the matches though. In
some cases I don't know which of the 10 versions of a song I've got, so I don't
dare tag it with one of the versions, but if I knew the acoustic fingerprint
was almost a perfect match, (much more so relatively speaking than the others)
that might give me more confidence. I also like the automatic tree of Artist,
Genre, and Albums, and the playlist stuff. I like random album mode. I dislike
that turning random on and off is so hard. I found that it wasn't obvious which
set of music was being considered for play at any time, but I like the history
and queue interfaces.</p>

<p>In short, I like Juk but I won't be using it because of stability issues. I did
use it to organize my tags, though. For renaming files, I think I'm going to
write my own script as I have very strange (but simple) ideas about how the
filestructure should be. I think Juk's renaming comes close to the ease and
power of EasyTag though. Incidentally, if EasyTag did MusicBrainz, I probably
never would have looked at Juk, in spite of EasyTag's odd interface. That would
have been a loss, because I trust Juk (or rather, taglib) much more than I do
EasyTag not to mess my files up, in spite of the lack of any experience that
would cause me to distrust EasyTag.</p>
