---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: iRiver iFP-795
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 22
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:ed267a37-b3ef-4a40-acaf-1bf8594b3827
date: '2005-09-17 22:39:39.000000000 -07:00'
tags:
- life
comments: []
---
<p>I've been windowshopping again, this time for mp3 players. I've decided that
this is the one I want: <a href="http://iriveramerica.com/prod/ultra/700/ifp_795.aspx">the iRiver
iFP-795</a>. It has
everything I require, and I think I would be quite happy with it. It also comes
highly recommended from several friends.</p>

<p>Here is what I require (at least, if <em>I'm</em> the one shelling out the dough):</p>

<ul>
<li>OGG Vorbis. Most of my music is encoded in this format. Incidentally, I
think I would use an mp3 player mostly for podcasts and listening to new
music. The made-with-linux music scene is 75% OGG Vorbis, so this condition
still holds. Plus, I want to buy from a company that does OGG.</li>
<li>USB Mass Storage device. Anything else is likely to not work well in linux.</li>
<li>At least 512MB. Actually 512 will probably be about perfect based on my
intended use: not to store my entire music archive in and have eternal
shuffle, but to give me a chance to listen to new music and podcasts during
the bus commute.</li>
<li>Affordable. Ok, it's not actually within my budget at the moment, but it's
not insanely expensive ($130 new).</li>
</ul>

<p>In addition to the above, here is what I really like about the 795:</p>

<ul>
<li>Standard AA battery</li>
<li>USB 2.0</li>
<li>FM Tuner and Recorder. I wonder if it's programmable; I have a tendency to
forget when <a href="http://cartalk.com">Car Talk</a> comes on.</li>
<li>Line-in and voice recorder. This will come in handy for recording
interesting sound sources to later become <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Musique_concrète">Musique
Concr&egrave;te</a>.</li>
<li>Decent battery life (~40 hours)</li>
</ul>
