---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: My Clue Variant
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 27
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:9871490a-9039-4e6f-b20b-a8706cd6fc24
date: '2005-04-10 00:35:49.000000000 -07:00'
tags:
- life
comments: []
---
<p>This variant of Clue will make the game more challenging without making it less
fun. There are two differences from the original: how you move and who may show
you cards to disprove suggestions.</p>

<p>Throw away the dice, you won't need them. You can move your token anywhere you
want, or stay in the same room for as long as you want. There is no restriction
on moving. But you will want to be more careful about where you go, as you will
see.</p>

<p>Take a moment to notice how the Clue board is laid out around
the perimeter of the mansion. Closeness of two rooms is defined in terms of
rooms around the perimeter. So the Hall is two rooms away from the Dining Room,
and the Kitchen is three rooms away from both the Billiard Room and the Hall. </p>

<p>When you make a suggestion, only the closest players may show you a card, and
each of the closest players must show a card if they can. For example, if you
are in the Ballroom with one other player, only that player may show you a
card. If you are alone in the Ballroom, with a player in the Conservatory and
two players in the Kitchen, then those three players may show you cards. All of
this is calculated after you make the suggestion, so if you suggest Miss
Scarlet did it and one of the players is Miss Scarlet, then only that player
and any other players already in the room may show you a card.</p>

<p>That's all there is to it. The resulting game is more challenging because you
get less predictable and less complete information, which means you need to be
more creative in your deductions. It is less boring (or at least not more
boring) because you don't have to worry about getting stuck walking in the
halls or across the board from where you need to be. </p>

<p>My brothers and I have played this way a few times with exciting game play to
the end each time. Usually when we play normal Clue the game ends quickly,
before anyone feels like they've had a chance to do any serious thinking.</p>
