---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Pier 42 Pizza
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 804
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:e11db4fd-3a78-48d1-8e7a-baed144cacd8
date: '2007-02-26 20:59:00.000000000 -08:00'
tags:
- food
- sourdough
- bread
- pizza
comments: []
---
<p>Made some delicious pizza tonight. As much for my benefit as yours I'm posting the recipe, since I always forget how much dough to make to feed n people.</p>

<pre>
Pier 42 Pizza
-------------
Serves 4 (two pies)
As hot as your oven goes

340  g   flour
230  g   water
1.33 tsp salt
30   g   active sourdough start
         olive oil
         sauce
         toppings

Mix and let set 8-18 hours. Longer would be even better, but you'll want to do
it in the fridge (take it out a couple of hours before). If you're in a hurry,
add 1 tsp yeast and let set 3-4 hours. If you're really in a hurry, get
Papa Murphy's.

Divide dough in two and stretch one half into your favorite pizza shape. Get
your toppings ready, then spread some olive oil over the crust, then spread
some sauce on top of that. Add cheese and toppings (or toppings and cheese),
and place in the preheated oven, preferably on a preheated pizza stone but a
cookie sheet would be ok too. Bake until the crust and cheese are golden brown
and delicious (5-15 minutes).
</pre>

<p>I didn't make the sauce for tonight's pizza, and frequently we just open a can
of tomato sauce and spread that on and then sprinkle oregano, basil, and salt
on top. But for completeness I'll give you the sauce recipe as it was told to
me (and as far as I remember it correctly):</p>

<pre><code>Sauté some garlic in some olive oil. Add a can of (mostly) drained diced or
crushed tomatoes and bring to a simmer. Salt to taste. Cover with sprinkled
basil, then add oregano and perhaps some thyme. Fresh is best of course, but
you can use dried. Simmer until you declare it done. Or don't simmer it at
all, someone told me that was the purist way.
</code></pre>

<p>If you're interested in going all Mario on us, jump on over to <a href="http://jvpizza.sliceny.com/">Jeff Varasano's
Famous New York Pizza Recipe</a>. There's a lot to
read and ponder there, and though I don't agree with everything on the whole
it's a great starting place. You certainly can't deny that he has some
delicious-looking pizza!</p>
