---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Ajax
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 10
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:ed91f1b5-efc3-4383-9477-cfe4fb643bb3
date: 2005-04-07 13:15:41.000000000 -07:00
tags:
- cs
comments: []
---
<p>Ajax? What's that?</p>

<p>I have done my time as a web developer. I don't like it a whole lot, but I
think the basic skillz are important ones for any IT or CS professional, like
writing and communicating. The reason I don't like it is because I feel it is a poor platform for doing what so many people try to get it to do. I also used to feel that it was a futile excercise to keep trying - a waste of effort.</p>

<p>Then Google hit me upside the head with Google maps. Amazing things were
happening there, and it wasn't a plugin. Then I start hearing about this Ajax
thing which I at first thought was a new language or server or something. No,
it's more comparable with MVC than JSP. The guy who coined the
term (<a href="http://www.adaptivepath.com/publications/essays/archives/000385.php">in this article</a>) put
it well:</p>

<blockquote>
    <p>Q. Is Ajax a technology platform or is it an architectural style?</p>

    <p>A. It's both. Ajax is a set of technologies being used together in a particular way. </p>
</blockquote>

<p><a href="http://www.loudthinking.com/arc/000435.html">I hear</a> some people are acting
fairly childish and close-mindedly about the name <em>Ajax</em>. Go away, or we shall
taunt you a second time.</p>

<blockquote>
    <p>Q. Why did you feel the need to give this a name?</p>

    <p>A. I needed something shorter than "Asynchronous JavaScript+CSS+DOM+XMLHttpRequest" to use when discussing this approach with clients. </p>
</blockquote>

<p>So now you know what Ajax is. I still would mostly object to a web app where a
GUI would be better, but at least now there's enough tech, talk, and doc to
make a reasonable interface for the user on the web.</p>
