---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: zd1201 USB Wireless Adapter
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 73
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:c0590a22-cf64-44ed-9fdc-ea2f6d10f6ec
date: 2005-05-27 08:04:33.000000000 -07:00
tags:
- linux
comments: []
---
<p>The Airport Extreme in the iBook is currently a lost cause for linux (curse
Broadcom), but the workaround is fairly cheap and not too inconvenient. I
bought a GigaFast WF741-UIC 802.11b USB wireless adapter, which has the ZyDAS
zd1201 chipset, and it works great in linux. I haven't got kismet to run yet,
although it does do monitor mode and I've heard of people getting kismet to
work with the old wlanng-based driver, so it's probably just a matter of time. </p>

<p>The driver (but not the firmware) is included in 2.6.12-rc5, but not 2.6.11.10.
So I recommend picking up a 2.6.12 or higher kernel, but aside from a
poorly-packed tarball building the module separately isn't hard either. I had
trouble getting Ubuntu to load the firmware, and the solution is apparently to
get more recent hotplug scripts. It has worked perfectly in Debian from day
one.</p>

<p>waproamd doesn't want to work, nor does wpa_supplicant, so I'm writing my own
autoconnect scripts. That's ok though, because I've never really been impressed
with waproamd, and wpa_supplicant is much too complicated for simple wep
authentication. The saddest thing, right now, is that I can't just put the
computer to sleep and have wireless when it wakes up. I have to take the card
out before sleep and put it in after, and since I don't yet have it
automatically configuring I also have to configure it on resume too. I've seen
a patch for this, but it didn't work for me.</p>
