---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: On setting up a Mac
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 86
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:923ffcdf-e08a-4de5-b239-6925a04261f9
date: '2005-04-14 16:09:27.000000000 -07:00'
tags:
- mac
comments: []
---
<p>When I sit down with a new computer, I enter the Configuration Zone. Not a distant cousin of the Twilight Zone, it can be a joy or a nightmare. My expectations are generally well-defined, and I tend to get upset when they are difficult to fulfil.</p>

<p>My expectations for a laptop and the OS on it:</p>

<ul>
<li><p>My productivity. This means</p>

<ul>
<li>Web</li>
<li>Console</li>
<li>ssh</li>
<li>IM/IRC</li>
<li>Keyboard acceleration</li>
</ul>

<p>In Linux, that means Firefox, xterm, ssh (duh), gaim, and currently FVWM. In
Windows, it's Firefox, putty, cygwin if I'll be suffering for a prolonged
period, gaim, and enough patience to endure the lack of useful keyboard
acceleration.</p>

<p>In OS X:</p>

<ul>
<li>Safari is OK, but there's no tabs so Firefox was one of the first
downloads.</li>
<li>The terminal is good enough for most of what I use a terminal for. It
needs a little tweaking, though. Namely, I need to figure out how to get
it to pass the pgup/pgdn keys to the application and not steal them for
scrollback, and I need to figure out how to get mutt in screen on falcon
to display properly. The font needs serious work, too (I wonder if I can
get <a href="http://www.is-vn.bg/hamster/jimmy-en.html">Terminus</a> to work in  OS
X).</li>
<li>ssh, check.</li>
<li>IM: iChat is neat in some ways, but the conversation UI is a terrible
waste of space and it doesn't support Jabber. Adium X seems to be what
I'll stick with, unless I gravitate to gaim later on, but I was
intentionally steering clear of X apps in X11 to try the "OS X" way of
doing things.</li>
<li>IRC: I usually do this in screen over ssh with irssi, but I did check out
irssix and Colluquy. They both look worthy of use as a native IRC client,
should I change my habits.</li>
<li>Keyboard: I have been quite pleased with the keyboard usage in OS X. I
was afraid OS X might be too mousy for me, but the accelerators are
consistent and very useful if you take a moment to learn them. I just
need to find a quick reference card now. The funky key (command key) is
my friend. Thayne tried to tell Jayce^ and I once that you couldn't remap
CAPS to ctrl in the Apple laptops, but you can indeed do it with a nifty
tool called <a href="http://gnufoo.org/ucontrol/ucontrol.html">uControl</a>. One of
the most important keystrokes to learn is ctrl-f2, which brings the menu
bar into focus.You probably want to switch things so that the function
keys are function keys first and nifty laptop feature keys
second&mdash;the opposite is the default. I also remapped enter to fn,
to make the fn versions of the arrow keys easier to access.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><p>Configurable but usable in default configuration.
OS X is very usable, and quite configurable in the important ways. I had fun
going through the system preferences, but didn't really change a lot. One
thing I wish I could figure out is how to go back to the Show All view with
the keyboard.</p></li>
<li><p>Sleep. This has eluded so many laptops I've used it's not even
funny&mdash;both in Linux and even in Windows. Works great in OS X on this
iBook, we'll see about Linux in a week.</p></li>
<li><p>Wireless. This is where I will be disappointed in Linux until I get a usb
wireless thingy, but I went into that with my eyes wide open. Works great in
OS X, except on boot it doesn't seem to join my network automatically. I'll
have to tinker with that.</p></li>
</ul>

<p>I ought to mention also that I think a laptop should be light and portable, but
that was part of the decision going in and has nothing to do with setup. I am
happy with the size of my iBook. Oh, by the way, his name is Gandalf.</p>
