---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Rye
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 719
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:6c19e212-6ad0-4043-95fa-371fdc33406b
date: 2006-09-08 13:18:00.000000000 -07:00
tags:
- food
- sourdough
- bread
- rye
comments: []
---
<p>My wife is out of town, which means you can bet your britches I'm eating all
the stuff she doesn't like this weekend. You know, like sauerkraut, corned
beef, swiss cheese, rye bread. Hey, those are the basic building blocks of one
of the most delicious sandwiches ever invented: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reuben_sandwich">The
Reuben</a>.</p>

<p>This post isn't about the Reuben. It's about the rye bread I used to make the Reuben. It turned out very well. Here's the recipe I used, which I adapted from somebody's <a href="http://www.goodcooking.com/ryebredr.htm">New York Style Jewish Rye</a> recipe:</p>

<pre>
300g 100% start
560ml water (2 1/3 cups)
1 T sugar
2 c light rye flour
2 T kosher salt
2 T caraway seeds
4.75 c flour
</pre>

<p>I didn't want three bâtards though, so I thirded the recipe. I mixed the dough for a few minutes in the mixer. I had to add some flour, but
the dough was still plenty wet. Oh, and sugar is boring and my honey was
crystallized so I used molasses instead. I stuck it in the fridge for five or
so hours and took it out just before going to bed. When I woke up I preheated
the oven at 400 for 20 minutes then baked under cloche for 10 minutes, then
without cloche to an internal temperature of 200 F. </p>

<p>It's delicious, but next time I'll use just a tad less salt and caraway.
Incidentally, caraway is the taste you probably associate with rye bread, not
the rye itself. There was no oven spring to speak of, I think because it was
just barely overproofed, in spite of starting the proof cold. I guess I'll just
have to sleep less or proof during the day.</p>
