---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Arroz
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 157
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:91990515-9499-4de2-928b-ac2569e10cd5
date: 2006-05-18 08:36:55.000000000 -07:00
tags:
- food
- rice
- latino
- spanish
- brazilian
comments:
- id: 1464
  author: Levi
  author_email: ''
  author_url: ''
  date: '2006-05-18 09:57:16 -0700'
  date_gmt: ''
  content: |-
    <p>The initial preparation sounds similar to how the Italians do risotto.  Saute some onions in butter, add short-grain rice, and let the rice cook for a while before you add any liquids.</p>

    <p>Risotto is a bit more labor-intensive, though, since you add the liquid (usually  chicken stock) a little at a time instead of all at once, and you're constantly stirring.  Good stuff, though.</p>
---
<p>Redbeard's post about <a href="http://blog.josephhall.com/2006/05/beans-and-rice.html">Beans and
Rice</a> used leftover
cooked rice, but it got me thinking that I could blog about how the Latin
Americans cook their rice. My information comes from little old abuelitas that
were kind enough to show me how they cooked things, and a Brazilian missionary
roommate.</p>

<p>Latinos cook rice differently than most Americans. I'm not talking about that
"spanish rice" stuff that the Mexicans make. I'm talking plain white rice
which prevails in every other Latin American country. The islanders also have
this yellow stuff which is pretty good, but that's another show.</p>

<p>There are many variations, as is always the case with rice, but it seems to me
that the basics are simple enough. First, sweat some garlic, onions, and salt.
To be really cool, smash the garlic in a mortar and pestle using the salt as an
abrasive agent. Or you can be lazy and use a garlic press. You'll have to come
to terms with how much garlic and onion to use, but for a standard saucepan
worth try a clove and half a small yellow onion. As for salt, your instincts
probably tell you to use too little. Don't skimp - garlic and onion without
salt is not good eats.</p>

<p>Second, put the rice in and stir occasionally (or constantly if you're the
nervous type). Do this for awhile, until you see most of the rice change. I
don't remember if it gets translucent or more opaque or what, but you'll notice
the change.</p>

<p>Third, add water. Americans would add two parts water, but the Latinos added
one part or one and a half parts. I think most that added one part would add
some in the middle, so you might as well go with 1.5. If you're a coward, go
ahead and put two parts in, but you'll miss out on the pegado.</p>

<p>Bring to a boil and if necessary let it boil down to where there's just half an
inch or so of water above the rice. This of course depends on the size and
shape of your vessel, but it's a good rule of thumb. Now, cover loosely and
reduce heat. But don't reduce it to almost nothing like we Americans do. We're
not simply steaming the rice here, we're also cooking it. </p>

<p>Let the rice cook, checking when you think it might be done. Depending on how
hot and how much water you had you may have to add a little, that's ok. When
it's done, it's ready to eat with black beans or whatever.</p>

<p>The end result is some of the most delicious rice you've ever tasted, and if
you're lucky there will be rice stuck to the bottom and/or sides of the pan.
This is the <em>pegado</em>, and it's delicious (if you didn't burn it). If you've
never had this, befriend a latino that isn't from Mexico and stop in for
dinner. You probably won't get it right the first time, but if you know what
it's supposed to taste like you can probably use the scientific method to
bridge the gap. A few rules of thumb: don't skimp on the oil or the salt, and
be sure to fry the rice long enough.</p>

<p>¡Buena Suerte!</p>
