---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: On Voting
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 750
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:b413713f-3bcf-4f9b-8f46-705808196859
date: '2006-11-07 11:17:35.000000000 -08:00'
tags:
- electronic
- voting
comments: []
---
<p>My state/county/whatever had a voting setup I felt really good about. I think
it's a model that should be followed with a few minor modifications.</p>

<p>I walked in, they checked my ID and no doubt marked me in the computer as
having voted. They printed up a ballot that was no doubt customized to my
precinct, and I took it to the booth. In the booth was a special marker for
marking the ballot, which was just a plain easy-to-read piece of paper with
ovals to fill in. You know, like the scantron tests that almost <em>everybody</em> has
experience with, except it's even better than generic scantron in that the
names are right next to the ovals. When I was done I fed it into a machine that
counted the vote and stashed the ballot in a bin underneath.</p>

<p>I like this system because it's proven technology and has a well-defined
voter-originating paper trail. Probably thousands of University students take
scantron tests every day of the year. Accuracy is high. Counting is easy.
Equipment is probably affordable. Paper trail is there and very simple to
audit.</p>

<p>What needs to be improved on the technical side is that the ovals were a bit
too big and elongated so that it was difficult to fill them in well with the
sometimes drying-out markers. Ordinary scantron-like bubbles with number 2
pencils would have been best, cheapest, and most familiar with voters. Label
them as special voting pencils if you like. The printer printing out ballots is
a nice touch, but it might have been cheaper to preprint ballots for each
precinct. Or maybe not, but worth looking into. </p>

<p>The other thing I was unhappy about was less about the technology. I was
disappointed to see that only Democratic and Republican candidates were listed.
You could write in candidates, but I liked having some of the smaller parties
listed as well. In Utah I had more choices, and I liked that. Next time I'll
have to come prepared with a list of Libertarian candidates to possibly write
in.</p>
