---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: runit
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 589
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:b51d801c-1d21-4811-a24c-cf80baa127b8
date: '2006-06-21 21:27:39.000000000 -07:00'
tags:
- admin
- debian
- runit
comments: []
---
<p>It's all Evan's fault, but I decided to give <a href="http://smarden.org/runit/">runit</a>
another gander.  The last time I tried it I was struck by two problems: runit
used really stupid names and directories, even more stupid than the
<a href="http://cr.yp.to/daemontools.html">daemontools</a> conventions I had grown used
to, and that there's no easy way to replace init even though it claims there
is.</p>

<p>This time I was struck by a couple of completely different things:</p>

<ul>
<li>runit is very obviously inspired by daemontools, yet it is not mentioned <em>anywhere</em> on the runit site. odd</li>
<li>runit starts stuff in parallel. cool</li>
</ul>

<p>I wonder if the daemontools nonmention is the result of some flamewar between
the author and djb. It does not stretch my imagination one millimeter to think
that djb might have got mad and told him not to use daemontools to promote
runit.</p>

<p>runit's <code>sv</code> program actually looks a bit more powerful than ol' <code>svc</code> so I'm
willing to let convention slide. I thought about replacing my init with runit,
but decided it's just too much work to babysit service scripts for all the
silly daemons that I may or may not install or have installed. Like wesnothd.
When I'm installing wesnothd, I don't want to have to set up a run script, and
now that it's installed I really don't want to set up a run script. </p>

<p>Since migrating involves porting everything over anyway, I figure the better
approach is to only port stuff you care about over to runit and let it run as a
child of init. Nothing new and exciting here, but I think it's worth
mentioning. </p>

<p>Debian's runit package was kind enough to copy over my existing daemontools
services and I think it even set up a symlink from <code>/var/service</code> to <code>/service</code>
which was very kind (or maybe I did that the last time I was investigating
it...).</p>

<p>So in summary, if you've never given daemontools or runit a try, do try one.
Try runit if you're normal, or try daemontools if you're a djb fanboy. In
either case, you'll find peace of mind in the assurance that your lousy daemons
will be brought back up when they die, the simplicity of the supervise scripts,
and the euphoria brought on by watching visiting admins try to figure out how
the @#$! to stop those daemons. (Actually, runit can be used to simulate those
<code>/etc/init.d</code> scripts and provide expected behavior, but where's the fun in
that?)</p>
