---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Ladder 49
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 691
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:d19ddf9d-60c5-40dd-86ad-5ae0c209574f
date: '2006-08-01 22:18:30.000000000 -07:00'
tags:
- movie
- review
comments:
- id: 1505
  author: Steve Dibb
  author_email: ''
  author_url: ''
  date: '2006-08-02 01:32:59 -0700'
  date_gmt: ''
  content: |-
    <p>How dare you criticize a movie?  Don't you know all the hard work that goes into making one?  Let's see you do a better job, punk.</p>

    <p>Oh, and I hope your house burns down. :)</p>
- id: 1506
  author: zzzirk
  author_email: ''
  author_url: ''
  date: '2006-08-02 09:58:22 -0700'
  date_gmt: ''
  content: |-
    <p>I think you've hit upon something that runs deeper than just firefighters.  It runs throughout all facets of society...  </p>

    <p>... I was posting more but realized that I didn't want to get into a rant this early in the morning so I've spared you ...</p>

    <p>And if Hans' house catches fire maybe he can splash some pool water on it... ;)</p>
- id: 1507
  author: vontrapp
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://von.fugal.net/blog
  date: '2006-08-03 19:06:18 -0700'
  date_gmt: ''
  content: <p>I saw this movie in with a group in a basement. It was exactly as Hans
    described, one long flashback of cliches. I enjoyed it however. Could have something
    to do with my bashing-buddy. The girl next to me (my brothers girlfriend at the
    time) and I had a blast making fun of it the whole way through. We didn't make
    fun of firefighters, mind you. We strictly made fun of the movie, the presentation.
    And we were careful to keep our voices low so as not to be called insensitive
    clods. :)</p>
---
<p>I try to avoid reviewing too many movies, because movie reviews are a dime a
dozen and why should you care what movies I like or don't like? But this is not
a movie review. It's a cultural observation with a movie review piggy-backed
onto it.</p>

<p>Ladder 49 is one long cliché. To be more precise, it is a cliché flashback
movie (you know, like the bad MacGyver episodes) containing a montage of cliché
"life of a firefighter" clips. It's boring, sappy drama. This in itself is not
extraordinary. There are a lot of boring sappy dramas.</p>

<p>What I wish to comment on is the fact that the preceding paragraph would no
doubt send some people into a fiery rage about how I'm an insensitive clod that
doesn't understand or respect what firefighters do for me and how dare I speak
that way about firefighters, and I hope your house burns down some day... I
know this is the case because while I was bored watching this movie I decided
to try and figure out if that was the actor's cleft lip or if it was special
makeup for the character (the actor's scar, although not from a cleft lip). In
the process I ended up on the IMDb site for the movie and read a few threads
that started with a negative review (two words permeated: "boring" and
"cliché") and ended with a whole slew of replies along the vein I already
described.</p>

<p>A lot of firefighters commented in those threads. They say it's the most
accurate movie about firefighters' lives that they've seen. I don't doubt
they're right. And if I were a firefighter I'd love to see an accurate
portrayal of my lifestyle on the big screen. Of course <em>they</em> like the movie.
(I would find an accurate movie about lifeguards (no, not baywatch) or an
accurate movie about computer scientists (ha!) interesting for that reason but
I have no delusions that it would be anything but very very boring for the
masses) It <em>was</em> somewhat more interesting than a documentary in some ways,
although probably somewhat less accurate as well.</p>

<p>Since 9/11 firefighters are sacred, and therefore movies about firefighters
can't be criticized without hordes of email-forwarding people calling the
critic an insensitive clod. I'm here to tell you that that is ridiculous. I,
and every other person who thought this movie was boring, can think and say
that without the least bit of disrespect for firefighters. I do respect them
and what they do. I've been in the rescue business. Although I'd never compare
lifeguarding to firefighting (at least not uneventful poolside lifeguarding),
I've been in the culture which includes lifeguards, firefighters, and
paramedics/EMTs. I know these people, and I respect and honor them and count
some of them as my friends. </p>

<p>If you were previously inclined to label someone a firefighter-hater
(publically or not) just because they don't like a boring movie about the life
of a firefighter, then grow up.  You would do far better to honor these people
by calling a spade a spade, instead of rolling over and applauding whatever
firefighter-themed drivel Hollywood throws your way while fishing for the
email-forwarder's dollar.</p>
