---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: SPA-3000
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 130
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:b367baf6-bccf-4f7d-b6eb-d7fc15abc987
date: 2006-05-12 21:19:34.000000000 -07:00
tags:
- asterisk
- voip
- sipura
- spa
- devkit
- developers
- kit
comments: []
---
<p>Getting started with Asterisk just got easier. Well, it didn't <em>just</em> get
easier, because the SPA-3000 isn't a new product. It's just that I just now
realized how perfect this device is for the fledgling VOIPer. </p>

<p>The traditional advice is to get an <a href="http://www.digium.com/en/products/hardware/devkit.php">Asterisk Developer's
Kit</a> which gives you one
FXS port and one FXO port, expandable. In the old days, this wasn't bad advice
because the old devkit was reasonably priced. The new devkit is better, but
pricier. At $240 it can hardly be considered entry level for any but the most
serious (or rich) Asterisk newcomers.</p>

<p>The <a href="http://www.sipura.com/products/spa3000.htm">Sipura SPA-3000</a> is an amazing
bundle of joy that also provides an FXS and FXO port. What I didn't realize
(but should have guessed) before now was that it can not only bridge its FXS
and FXO ports, but act as a gateway with external SIP devices, like Asterisk.
So this thing can do everything the Asterisk devkit can do except add FXS or
FXO ports, but without all the headache or cost. You can find these for less
than a hundred, and you don't have to install it in your PC, worry about
interrupts, or set up <code>zap*.conf</code>. You can still use Asterisk, of course, but
you can also pair it up directly with <a href="http://openser.org/">SER</a> or any SIP
provider you like. Yes, you could do that with Asterisk too, but frankly
Asterisk isn't a stellar SIP implementation and if you're serious about SIP
you'll find on occasion that you might like to bypass it. (Whether or not you
want to be serious about SIP is another post. ;-)</p>

<p>If you want to get started with VOIP in the comfort of your own home, all you
need is a Linux box and an SPA-3000. </p>

<p>What about all the phones scattered throughout the house? Plug the phone
company directly into the SPA FXO, and the SPA FXS into the wall. (Or just go
straight VOIP, in which case you don't technically need a 3000 but might be
better served with a 1000 or 2000 family member) </p>

<blockquote>
    <p>What about Digium?! How will the Asterisk developers feed their children and
    pets?! You traitor! You capitalist! You... You... Microsoft-lover!</p>
</blockquote>

<p>I am full of gratitude for the Asterisk developers and for Digium, but I
frankly believe Digium's products are overpriced and I have no qualms in taking
my business elsewhere when it makes sense to do so. I have a Sipura SPA-1001
and I am very impressed with the quality of it, so I am confident in my
recommendation. Go with the SPA.</p>
