---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: MacBook
author: Hans
author_login: fugalh
author_email: hans@fugal.net
author_url: http://hans.fugal.net/
wordpress_id: 755
wordpress_url: urn:uuid:2d159fe7-7de2-40f0-a064-06facb9d1382
date: 2006-11-15 09:42:00.000000000 -08:00
tags:
- mac
- osx
- macbook
- ibook
comments: []
---
<p>My <acronym title="Graduate Assistance in Areas of National
Need">GAANN</acronym> fellowship provides me with a laptop, and that laptop has
finally arrived. It's a MacBook 13" and it's very nice. Unfortunately the
University claims it as its own because it was bought through them and was
over $1k, so I will have to give it back when my GAANN stint is over. Hopefully
that means when I graduate, but if our department doesn't get the GAANN award
that it's applying for that means GAANN is kaput next August. So I'm keeping
the iBook in cold storage and we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.</p>

<p>In the process of setting up my essential applications I discovered a few had
been updated without telling me, and I took the chance to investigate some
alternatives to the programs I wasn't fully satisfied with.
<a href="http://iterm.sourceforge.net/">iTerm</a> was updated, and actually has a useful
release now. It looks a little nicer, seems to behave better, although I've
come across some glitches when it's set to always show tabs. I skipped the
space-consuming menu bar system monitoring stuff that I had on the iBook and
gave <a href="http://iconfactory.com/software/ipulse">iPulse</a> another look. Last time I
was turned off by the clown colors and that it was hard to see what was going
on. This time I was looking for succinctness and was willing to invest some
time in learning to read the display, and I tried out a few of its jackets (I
settled on <a href="http://iconfactory.com/freeware/preview/doppler">Doppler</a>), and I'm
quite pleased. It also has a menubar display that's much more relevant and
compact than what I was using, as well as an animated dock icon. And it doubles
as an analog clock down there in the corner. I'm very impressed.</p>

<p>I am disappointed, however, in the video card. Flightgear still runs at a
crawling 7fps sitting on the runway at KSFO with the default settings. I might
be able to get it running at a suitable speed, but based on this experience
this Intel GMA 950 card is nothing like the NVidia Quadro4 in my desktop.
Flightgear on the iBook worked fairly well in Linux, so I'll try that out when
I get Linux installed and perhaps I will be pleasantly surprised. This wasn't
to be my primary Flightgear station anyway so it's not the end of the world.</p>

<p>I'll report on installing Ubuntu 6.10 when I get around to it in the next few days.</p>
